terrified so should now be recording
okay hi welcome to the ipfs dachshund
develop working group meeting today is
Monday the 16th of March 2020
everyone is doing well so I'll just jump
in so you can see my screen here so we
just run through the agenda notes that
we've got going on if those in the
meeting if you could just add your name
to the participants list at the top
that'd be lovely cool so I'll just jump
into things so first off the okay our
for content creation and improvement so
we've had three mergers coming recently
so bit swap I pianist and let p2p a few
views have been stopped in the pr list
for a while now just gang soon for the
reviews on them and things like that
they've all now been motion which is
great so they've also all come from
contributors out in the wild which has
been excellent to work with those guys
so thank you very much next up we've got
another couple of branches that are
currently being worked on and just
wanted to explain what's what's going on
with those two so the first one is
websites on ipfs so this is essentially
aimed at web developers that kind of
want to start using IP FS and the whole
idea of is it's going to be a tutorial
series that walk people through so first
up saying and initial just a single page
website or a static website then I swear
it's not Corona
it's just our choking on water yeah so
it's it's gonna be walking through web
developers and you start with a static
page website and you kind of go through
more complex things you get two
multi-page sites with you know external
assets and then you move on eventually
to posting stuff on my cloud flower or
using a gateway or something like that
so you can actually start using IP FS is
more of a regular so this is rather just
like a niche sort of thing this is
coming because a lot of people kind of
hit ipfs and don't really know what to
do with it there's there's a lot of
website bastes that we already have but
it's kind of all over the place and
there's no sort of real
guiding force to it so that's that
brunch and then the basics branch this
kind of came out of a brainstorm I had a
couple of weeks ago we have again we
have a lot of content on the docs which
is really cool and kind of talked about
very stupid things like bit swap and IP
an ass but what we don't have is why
ipfs exists like we don't really explain
the problem that ipfs is actually trying
to address very well so that's what the
the basics branch is attempting to do so
I go through these are the problems that
ipfs these are the problem that we have
with the websites on the industry as a
whole this is how ipfs addresses those
and then sort of gets into the more
technical this is exactly how addresses
those and in terms of like or bits what
does and then like why see IDs are
useful and things like that so that's
what those two branches are can I add
some notes yeah good so those two things
actually end up really closely aligning
with two groups of stuff in the
ecosystem recommendations and they as
far as I know are sitting in the top 20
I'm looking at the top 20 of those
recommendations because a lot of these
things like about ten of those or fix
the repos so ends up sort of being sis
if you look at the top ten it's really
the top 20 at this point in time um
there's definitely was ranking really
high just based on like the math of who
gets affected by it
the hostess static site guidance ranks
rollover high on that list so yeh this
is something that I think is speaking
quite highly to both of our mindsets
right now which was super sweet the
other thing you were talking about the
basics branch as you start working on
that there's two specifically there
they're a little bit fine-grained and
sorry I should look at these notes
before the meaning to actually link
directly to these I'll find them and
send them to you but we've got the very
high level usage ideas and examples
document for IPO fest it is like being
clamored for in the forums and so forth
and Deitrick that was something I think
that was on your list of folks people
wanted so there was this sort of very
high level usage ideas and examples doc
and then there was also we talked about
this Johnny right before you joined but
the how can i PFS help me with thing
where thing is basically the the 11 core
goal so I'm gonna say 11 like how can i
PFS helps me avoid you know governments
or how can i PFS help me with data
provenance so so do you think that those
two goals I mean maybe not and the first
thing that you're working on right now
but I see all of those is sort of being
part and parcel of the sort of like dip
your toes and ipfs while the piranhas
drag you under kind of thing
sorry that was a really unsavory
metaphor yeah yeah if you could if you
link to those things I will do and then
I also have another audit thing a little
bit further down the list that I'll
bring up when you get rid of them the
list items so like the core goals those
core goals should absolutely inform the
documentation for the basics branch yeah
this is one of the challenges and I feel
like this this big sis branch might be
might need to be like that the one ring
that rules them all in terms of where we
point people who are like but why why
why IP fest because we still get that
question really really a lot and there's
no pointing into the website home pages
dietrichson is dietrich gets florida
pauses now yeah florida pause yeah I
know you right I mean my ideas with the
basic grunt try the moment was like the
first initial page I want to be able to
send my mother to that page and be like
hey mom this is this is what we do this
is what so that's that's the point of
that I'd actually stemmed from that from
a call that I had with my mother so
thank you mama cool okay just just take
a question if I'm lucky in this the list
going down though
is this listed these are all okay ours
for q1 these ones that I'm okay are has
the prefix I these were all q1 okay ours
and I think we're starting to hit the
point where the work you're doing on
these is starting to become q2 ok ours
am i right okay
yeah exactly I've not you Brewin the
okay I was out yeah for q2 and onwards
but yeah it's gonna be based on that's
on my head I setup the format of this
meeting based on q1 ok ours and yeah no
no I let the set of figs the top-level
discussion is okay our testing is great
excuse my language the speaker
okay cool we we good to move on to the
next one yes yeah I'll find that on one
one thing real quick though um the links
I'm throwing through to the candy
recommendations um they're really rough
right now and one of the things I want
to do today is rewrite all of those
candy recommendations in like human
readable ways where humans are not
living inside my brain so don't don't
worry right now they're really really
bleeping big and they'll get better
cool see that's how you swear on one of
these calls tea trick you know cool okay
I'll just quickly move to the rbo
contributors this is essentially on hold
because of the last point that I gets
you layer essentially it's about go idea
person 0.5 release we're halfway through
March anyway so we got about two more
weeks left of this this quarter so that
projects kind of just getting prompt or
there are people still out there that
we're working with but I'm not actively
giving them anything to work on right
now until the style that I score cool
doctor Kshatriyas
the only main doctor we have was issue
465 which I think came from Hector and
that was essentially about installing
idea first should be the main thing I
actually disagree with some of what
Hector says on that one who's saying
this in a public call he was saying this
from a very developer centric viewpoint
and I know one of the things that we had
identified
again with the audit recommendations
with a bald-faced this is we wanted to
do this very sort of visually based flow
chart based Johnny you and I talked
about this ages ago flow chart based
guide to what flavour
ipfs do might need and if we do that
document correctly that will suffice
both for your mom and developers who
just want to install ipfs because I
think Hector was really saying that this
needed to be like command line first and
I think if we if we can get them very
very quickly off the bat to make a
decision and then not have to see you
know so your mom is never gonna have to
see like code blocks and the developer
is never gonna have to read your mom
instructions right off the bat so that I
think a lot of his guidance is very very
good in terms of shuttling developers to
the right place with a lot of without a
lot of noise and we were probably trying
to find the other direction I think we
just need to be really careful about how
we branch this and like branch people
early does that make sense yeah yeah it
absolutely does I mean this is what like
incredible so documentation websites I
want many right now but like really
really good ones do this really really
well on the home page they kind of
funnel people into it oh you're a dev oh
no you're the right as mom okay I don't
see this as being like because cuz
remember we get we can't have like a
pretty splash page as it were on that
view press site and we could even make
that a entry point on that I know one of
the recommendations was to investigate
sort of whether one of the audit
recommendations is to investigate
whether the IP FSI 8 and the doc site
live together in one big mashup harmony
and that may sort of impact that and we
can talk about that later but gosh crud
I'm sorry I am so sorry oh Agata you can
you can enlist you can enlist Agata to
do this if you want to just like
back-of-the-envelope sketch out anything
you want for a tree you have resources
for forgetting that drawn into something
that's like stunningly visually
beautiful yeah yeah I thought the idea
and yeah like you mentioned last week
that
yeah the ipfs site itself is in dire
need of
various different things which I'm
completely bored with as well I'd like
to use the main yeah this is a question
and again this is another another one of
the audit recommendations at the
students do we roll in the distaff s dot
io sign in to either Docs or main ipfs
god io because if we if we do this
installing page tree thing well this
will basically be to some degree a
replacement for dis dot yeah I I'm
reading through this page now I can see
what Hector means yeah like that I like
I like your your branch early Jessica
like if your if your developer if you're
not a developer and I think for the non
developer like desktop has to be cuz
companion is useless with that desktop
it doesn't I mean maybe we just say
right off the bat you know do you want
to do you want to build with ipfs or do
you want to use ipfs like maybe that's
like the first thing you know click this
button early for it sounds like I think
that would alleviate all of the Hector
concerns here which are pretty valid
yeah I mean everything he's saying if
your developer everything yours is he
saying is legit I think all this stuff
it's all the right stuff and he's only
commenting on the order really not yeah
and we were just trying to roll it all
into one largely text-based page an
initial launch realizing we were gonna
have to come back to this later now
might be later yeah it seems like it
seems like I'm not a big fick but I like
I'm totally down with the yes the big
install button on the top of the page
above the fold always works the nice
thing is that all of these things all of
these things are in my top 20
recommendations so nice I mean one of
the things that is kind of special
without their passes if you have an
install button for our FS what what are
you installing I'm doing the desktop
browser are you using their different
like we have so many things
really
wait but ultimately we don't like that's
and that's what I think that it's kind
of like you what people are like
understanding what people's needs are
this is really important and I think
what would the inkling that we have so
far and I don't think we've to have
enough research or enough different like
80 pages be able to tell that story well
but if you're a developer like from
foremost statistically for most of L
pers it's gonna be the NPM link like and
for if you're a superior developer who's
not a JavaScript developer then it's the
go demon right yeah but everybody else
that's gonna be desktop and if you have
if you want companion it's only because
you already have desktop and really like
this is that redesign of Campania that
we talked about in Brooklyn Jessica like
there's really no point in having
companion if you don't have desktop it
is a prerequisite or a driver maybe this
is a high level goal for the whole for
the whole productize ipfs spectrum is
you know presenting this in such a way
to like theoretically at least a
download button is meaningful yeah I
would I would love I would love to see
that I I think there's a lower like the
lower bar we get hit pretty early quick
just by yeah yeah yeah I mean I think I
think that's stuff that's gonna be you
know if I get to shuttle myself off on
on product work in q2 q3 then this is
gonna be a very different conversation
in q2 q3 but I think I think creating
this branch flowchart II install ipfs
page can happen I don't I can't make it
like that like the Java installed
statement cuz like you know I use yarn
because it's got a kitty that's fine
words deitrick what we could do we could
just use media queries to figure out if
is is using a dark theme on that
computer and then if they are then we
just assume that they're a developer and
then since they were my Oh
four above red lighting and I got the
coffee yet to like figure out how to
make what I was about to say
appropriately offensive enough okay well
I would probably be about quickly if
that's okay based on time so contribute
guidelines reference yeah so finalizing
Copa so no that's all ready to go and
then a blog post and an example char to
Tory to go along with it
just to explain what this is why it's
useful and then kind of how to use it so
it's some examples of like this is the
main purpose that we've got we're going
down we had a discussion for those
probes we had a discussion internally
about what the examples in use cases we
could pick from generally going down the
idea of planets because it keeps up with
the interplanetary so a feeling of
things so that's basically where
everything's gonna come around but
you'll be able to see in the tutorials
coming out this week how that works how
to create examples and use cases from
from that batch of major projects so
that we cool I am so excited about that
I'm so psyched I've had a lot of fun
learning about planets in fact you know
a little bit of a spoiler why not if you
go to I was lots of fun this week or
last week rather was it random planet
fact so I bought this domain for four
dollars random facts that XYZ but then I
was like let's just you know
decentralized everything so to go to
each link this is a decentralized
version of rocket fire I was really
excited so I said see what yeah enough
people for random facts and things thank
you for not masking the domain redirect
because I can see that you're hosting
the Sun pinata exactly yes right yeah
that's gonna get addressed later though
but yeah
that was that's a spoiler of what's
coming up in the tutorial I'm very
excited each and you really look at look
how good my you axes look this is
there's like seven things that the CSS
you don't need to come to played
stylesheets you don't need to use
bootstrap anymore you can just use like
dude it's not in Comic Sans I'm
disappointed oh but that would have
required me to like and pull off fun and
then they would have it you should have
been a mess
cool so yeah like that yeah what's it
what's the lighthouse score for this
zero it's probably amazing there's a
pool good sleeping well I was thinking
is it's gonna be a FS oh it's gonna be
like pretty so it's gonna be slower than
regular websites already so I want to
keep it as small as possible so yeah
that was my my thinking for that anyway
so get a lastly sorry any more questions
about my English credible websites girls
I'm excited just just just
anxiously waiting cool okay lastly non
okay our gender items so go ipfs that's
getting released very shortly in the
next few weeks and i found out recently
your last weekend father there's a
substantial amount of documentation that
needs to be written for this release
it's not huge it's not really over the
docks teams like issues is it's likely
gonna all get done which is fine but it
does mean that it's kind of
overshadowing some of the okay ahhs that
we have this off p twos so this has come
in these are the sections of five main
sections that i'd that we need to write
doctor bow so i'd be honest i def ask a
domain so the main gateway things like
that know discoverability
this one's been quite fun because it
means that i've been actively breaking
my router which is sat behind me to
figure out how to do no discoverability
so it overheated on tuesday last week
that was fun but yeah so that's kind of
pops up so shifting a lot of my focus
first of the next week is so gonna be
doing a love note point five release
documentation but once that's done we
should be all good to go thanks any
questions about that i had a question
yeah so this 0.5 release
this documentation will I went five time
and I wonder if it's possible for us to
do the reshuffling of the beta Docs
install page 0.5 as well even if it's
just just dropped that that developer
install part at the top so that people
who end up at the docks beta site
because of 0.5 or 0.5 related
communications get that it's not prompt
at the very top of the page instead of
getting companion first or explainers
first okay here's a thought Johnny what
if what if we because like I think
Hector defense to the HD that said dip
your toes in decentralized waters I
think if we just made the h2s build like
the first HT would be like build stuff
on ipfs and then we put all the Devi
stuff there and then the second h2 would
just be use ipfs for storing and sharing
files and then I think that would be
like like a 15 minute change if your
NamUs add yeah I kind of addressed
things first for now because I mean I am
trying to keep in mind there with folk
kind of running low on time we got about
two weeks until the end of this month so
yeah so yeah to make to make that easy
we can definitely do something like that
oh cool
all right cool any other points to bring
a bit this is awesome yeah looks great
I'm separating the only other thought I
had was around getting a little getting
ahead of two weeks from now and having
an eye towards one of this stuff should
be explicitly start merked q2 and then
also one of the next set of things that
are in the backlog for q2 er okay yeah I
can focus on those all at some point
this week actually like writing out the
okay although the point 5 stuff takes
precedent probably over everything but
this is very like in there in the back
of your head of these things that we're
shifting off to prioritize 0.5 probably
over over anything here 0.5
the top I'd say feel free even just to
get that stuff that is in blinders on
for the rest of the stuff until that 0.5
stuff is up and ready to go and then we
can figure out the next step cool well I
mean one thing I've even in my mind is
all I'm because I think the 0.5 team are
going to be doing the code freeze at
some point and developers are really
really good at pushing in things with
like two days before release go go you
need to write about this out so I'm just
keeping my eye out for that all
developers do it even if they say they
don't did you yeah it's like we volved
we've all been through this before
like we know what they're gonna do
creeping future creature exactly okay
cool I'm gonna stop recording now if I
can't find a note and it starts correct
loading